ROMEO 2.2.1
He jests at scars that never felt a wound. teases me for pains he's never felt
[JULIET enters at window]
But soft, what light through yonder window breaks? wait, that, shines
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, beautiful
Who is already sick and pale with grief 2.2.5
That thou her maid art far more fair than she. servant
Be not her maid, since she is envious,
Her vestal livery is but sick2
 and green, virgin's uniform, pale1
And none but fools do wear it. Cast it off. jesters, take them off
It is my lady. O, it is my love! 2.2.10
O, that she knew she were! if only she knew
She speaks, yet she says nothing. What of that? I cannot hear
Her eye discourses; I will answer it. speaks to me
I am too bold. 'Tis not to me she speaks. presumptuous
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven, 2.2.15
Having some business, do1
 entreat her eyes have begged
To twinkle in their spheres till they return. orbits
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars, outshine 2.2.20
As daylight doth a lamp. Her eyes1
 in heaven eye2
Would through the airy region stream so bright sky, shine
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand! 2.2.25
O, that I were a glove upon that hand, I wish I were
That I might touch that cheek!
JULIET Ay me! 2.2.27
ROMEO She speaks. 2.2.28
O, speak again, bright angel, for thou art
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
As is a wingèd messenger of heaven
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes awe-struck
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
When he bestrides the lazy puffing clouds mounts
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
JULIET 2.2.36
O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo? why must you be "Romeo"
Deny thy father and refuse thy name.
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love, just swear to be my love
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
ROMEO 2.2.40
Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
JULIET 2.2.41
'Tis but thy name that is my2
 enemy. only, mine1
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague. you would still be yourself if
What's Montague? It is nor hand, nor foot,
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part1
Belonging to a man.2
 O, be some other name!1
 2.2.45
What's in a name? That which we call a rose
By any other name1
 would smell as sweet. word2
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo called,
Retain that dear perfection which he owes owns
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name, discard 2.2.50
And for that1
 name, which is no part of thee, in exchange for, thy2
Take all myself. take all of me
ROMEO [to her] I take thee at they word. 2.2.53
Call me but Love, and I'll be new baptized; re-baptized with a new name
Henceforth I never will be Romeo. from now on
JULIET 2.2.56
What man art thou that thus bescreened in night is hidden
So stumblest on my counsel? eavesdropping on my secrets
ROMEO By a name 2.2.58
I know not how to tell thee who I am.
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself, 
Because it is an enemy to thee.
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
JULIET 2.2.63
My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words
Of thy tongue's utterance1
, yet I know the sound. uttering2
Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
ROMEO 2.2.66
Neither, fair saint1
, if either thee dislike. maid2
JULIET 2.2.67
How came'st thou hither, tell me, and wherefore? here, why
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
And the place death, considering who thou art,
If any of my kinsmen find thee here. family
ROMEO 2.2.71
With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls, fly over
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
And what love can do, that dares love attempt. love will do what it dares
Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me. family
JULIET 2.2.75
If they do see2
 thee, they will murder thee! find1
ROMEO 2.2.76
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye2
danger, eyes1
Than twenty of their swords! Look thou but sweet, upon me sweetly
And I am proof against their enmity. armored, hostility
JULIET 2.2.79
I would not for the world they saw2
 thee here. find1
: want them to see you here
ROMEO 2.2.80
I have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes2
, sight1
And but thou love me, let them find me here. if you do not love me
My life were better ended by their hate
Than death proroguèd, wanting of thy love. postponed, without your love
JULIET 2.2.84
By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
ROMEO 2.2.85
By love, who first did prompt me to inquire. seek you
He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes. advice
I am no pilot, yet wert thou as far navigator
As that vast shore washed1
 with the farthest sea,
I would adventure for such merchandise. treasure
JULIET 2.2.90
Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek girlish, color
For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight.
Fain would I dwell on form; fain, fain deny gladly, follow formalities
What I have spoke. But farewell compliment! etiquette
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say "Ay," 2.2.95
And I will take thy word. Yet if thou swear'st,
Thou mayst prove false. At lovers' perjuries, you may be lying, lies
They say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo, the god Jupiter
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.
Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won, 2.2.100
I'll frown and be perverse and say thee nay stubborn, tell you no
So thou wilt woo; but else not for the world. pursue me, otherwise
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond, too affectionate
And therefore thou mayst think my b'havior2
 light, havior1
: I'm not serious
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true faithful 2.2.105
Than those that have more1
 coying to be strange. who play hard-to-get
I should have been more strange, I must confess, aloof
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was 'ware, before I was aware